feat(lambda): efs filesystems (#8602)
aws/aws-cdk: packages/@aws-cdk/aws-lambda/README.md

the log retention to never expire even if it was configured with a different value.

### FileSystem Access

You can configure a function to mount an Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) to a
directory in your runtime environment with the `filesystems` property. To access Amaozn EFS
from lambda function, the Amazon EFS access point will be required. 

Amazon EFS _access points_ are application-specific entry points into an EFS file system that
make it easier to manage application access to shared datasets. Access points can enforce a user
identity, including the user's POSIX groups, for all file system requests that are made through
the access point. Access points can also enforce a different root directory for the file system
so that clients can only access data in the specified directory or its subdirectories. See
[Working with Amazon EFS Access Points](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/efs/latest/ug/efs-access-points.html) for more details.

The following sample enables the lambda function to mount the Amazon EFS filesystem via the `accessPoint` to `/mnt/msg` in the runtime environment.

```ts
const accessPoint = new efs.AccessPoint(stack, 'AccessPoint', {
  fileSystem,

> });

Reviewer: There should be a `fileSystem.addAccessPoint()` method

Reviewer 2: Agreed.

FWIW - we agreed this will come as a separate PR - https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/8631#discussion_r443411910.

Author: Yes. PR created https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/8737

directory in your runtime environment with the `filesystems` property. To access Amaozn EFS
from lambda function, the Amazon EFS access point will be required. 

Amazon EFS _access points_ are application-specific entry points into an EFS file system that
make it easier to manage application access to shared datasets. Access points can enforce a user
identity, including the user's POSIX groups, for all file system requests that are made through
the access point. Access points can also enforce a different root directory for the file system
so that clients can only access data in the specified directory or its subdirectories. See
[Working with Amazon EFS Access Points](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/efs/latest/ug/efs-access-points.html) for more details.

The following sample enables the lambda function to mount the Amazon EFS filesystem via the `accessPoint` to `/mnt/msg` in the runtime environment.

```ts
const fileSystem = new efs.FileSystem(stack, 'Efs', { vpc });

const accessPoint = fileSystem.addAccessPoint('AccessPoint');

const fn = new lambda.Function(stack, 'MyLambda', {
  code,
  handler,
  runtime,
  vpc,
  securityGroups: fileSystem.connections.securityGroups,

>   filesystems: [{

Reviewer 3: I don't see a reason to separate the target and the mount path to form the file system configuration. It feels unnecessarily convoluted. Can you talk to why my original proposal did not work?

```ts
new lambda.Function(stack, 'MyLambda', {
  fileSystems: [ 
    lambda.FileSystem.fromEfsAccessPoint(accessPoint, '/mnt/fs1'[, options]),

    // should we also provide a sugar that just accepts an EFS file system directly and defines the AP for you?
    lambda.FileSystem.fromEfsFileSystem(fileSystem, '/mnt/fs2'[, options])
  ]
});
```

This is a very common pattern in the CDK where we model a data structure as "a union like class". 

```ts
class FileSystem {
  public static fromEfsAccessPoint(ap: efs.AccessPoint, nountPath: string, options: EfsAccessPointOptionns = {}): FileSystem {
    return new FileSystem({
      LocalMountPath: mountPath, 
      Arn: ap.accessPointArn
    });
  }

  protected constructor(public readonly config: any) { }
}
```

Something like this...

Author: OK. Let me revise it. Thanks for the chime in.

Author: Hi @eladb , I've updated it accordingly. Please check it out again.

And I exposed the `accessPoint.filesystem` from efs construct lib now. Still trying to figure out how to `addDependency` on it in lambda.Function.

However, as `fromEfsAccessPoint` only returns 

```
{
  LocalMountPath: ...
  Arn: ...
}
``` 

I was wondering if we should return something like `dependency` as an array like this
```
{
  localMountPath: ...
  arn: ...
  dependency: [...]
}
```

so the lambda.Function can simply `addDepencency()` on them. And in this case `accessPoint.filesystem` only.  Thoughts?

    target: new lambda.EfsAccessPointTarget(accessPoint),
    mountPath:  '/mnt/msg',
  }],
});

> fn.node.addDependency(accessPoint, fileSystem);

Reviewer 3: Why is this needed? This should be implicit

Author: Actually the lambda function will need to depend on the `CfnMountTarget` resources which were created [under the hood](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/blob/75e6d255e8a6f3a45f0c65905e23bf058c8ced27/packages/%40aws-cdk/aws-efs/lib/efs-file-system.ts#L267) when we new `efs.FileSystem()`

From my previous tests we need at least

```
fn.node.addDependency(fileSystem);
```

Otherwise we'll encounter the mount targets not ready error. 

Did I missing anything?

Reviewer 3: That’s okay, but this can be automatically added for the user, no?

Author: > That’s okay, but this can be automatically added for the user, no?

I am afraid not. From the `lambda.Function`'s perspective, all we have is only the `accessPoint` and there is no reference to the `efs.FileSystem` or mount targets from the given `accessPoint` so we can't do it in the lambda function. We probably can add another PR from the EFS constructs to expose those resources from the `accessPoint`. Does it make sense?

Reviewer 3: I think `accessPoint.filesystem` is in order and it should be sufficient because if `CfnMountTarget` is a child of the FileSystem Construct, then the dependency will transitively apply. 

I think we can add it in this PR

Author: Hi @eladb 

I still found it challenging as in `efs.AccessPoint` the `fileSystem` construct property actually is `IFileSystem`

https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/blob/83fd2aee6389d03cfe69260b996d7d09398bbf99/packages/%40aws-cdk/aws-efs/lib/access-point.ts#L108

so the `accessPoint.filesystem` exposed will actually `IFileSystem` and lambda.Function can't depend on it.

Comments?

*Further note* that, if the log group already exists and the `logRetention` is not set, the custom resource will reset
the log retention to never expire even if it was configured with a different value.

### FileSystem Access

> You can configure a function to mount an Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) file system to a local directory. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can configure a function to mount an Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) file system to a directory in your runtime environment. 
```

> The following sample enables the lambda function to mount the filesystem from Amazon EFS via the `accessPoint` to 

Reviewer 3: I think we need to add a few words that explain what are EFS access points, and perhaps a reference to learn more.

the local `/mnt/msg` directory.

```ts
const accessPoint = new efs.AccessPoint(stack, 'AccessPoint', {
  fileSystem,
  createAcl: {
    ownerGid: '1000',
    ownerUid: '1000',
    permissions: '755',
  },
  path: '/lambda',
  posixUser: {
    uid: '1000',
    gid: '1000',

>   },

Reviewer 3: Is this the minimal usage? I would expect most of these to have sensible defaults and then this example can and should be much more concise. This is not about access points, it's about lambda.

Author: Agree. But unfortunately I didn't find any document for the recommended permission settings in this case. However, according the our announcement blog post - [New – A Shared File System for Your Lambda Functions](https://aws.amazon.com/tw/blogs/aws/new-a-shared-file-system-for-your-lambda-functions/), we use `1001` for both owner/posix uid/gid and `750` as the permission. How about use this settings as the defaults ?

Author: Hi @eladb 

From my current proposed design, `lambda.FileSystem.fromEfsAccessPoint()` requires `accessPoint: efs.IAccessPoint` as the only property.

We can update the sample in the README to create the accessPoint like this

```
const accessPoint = new efs.AccessPoint(stack, 'AccessPoint', {
  fileSystem,
  path: '/lambda',
});
```
And create the function like this

```ts
const fn = new lambda.Function(stack, 'MyLambda', {
  code,
  handler,
  runtime,
  vpc,
  filesystems: {
    filesystem: lambda.FileSystem.fromEfsAccessPoint(accessPoint),
    localMountPath: '/mnt/msg',
  },
});
```
This might look more concise. What do you think?

Reviewer 3: @nija-at what do you think? Should we reach out to lambda/EFS to consult about defaults?

Reviewer 2: @eladb - I believe we landed at some decent defaults here - https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/8631. @pahud did some deep dive into what EFS defaults to.

`path` is optional and defaults to `/`. 
`createAcl` is optional and is only needed if the location defined by `path` needs to be created as part of mounting the access point.
`posixUser` is optional and is only needed when [user enforcement](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/efs/latest/ug/efs-access-points.html#enforce-identity-access-points) should be enabled.

Reviewer 3: So lets use those defaults.

Reviewer 3: > Hi @eladb
> 
> From my current proposed design, `lambda.FileSystem.fromEfsAccessPoint()` requires `accessPoint: efs.IAccessPoint` as the only property.
> 
> We can update the sample in the README to create the accessPoint like this
> 
> ```
> const accessPoint = new efs.AccessPoint(stack, 'AccessPoint', {
>   fileSystem,
> });
> ```
> 
> And create the function like this
> 
> ```ts
> const fn = new lambda.Function(stack, 'MyLambda', {
>   code,
>   handler,
>   runtime,
>   vpc,
>   filesystems: {
>     filesystem: lambda.FileSystem.fromEfsAccessPoint(accessPoint, '/mnt/msg'),
>   },
> });
> ```
> 
> This might look more concise. What do you think?

Yes this is what I'd like to see

});

const fn = new lambda.Function(stack, 'MyLambda', {
  code,
  handler,
  runtime,
  vpc,
  vpcSubnets: {
    subnetType: ec2.SubnetType.PRIVATE,
  },

>   securityGroups: fileSystem.connections.securityGroups,

Reviewer 3: I expect this to be automatically determined. Seems like redundant information.

>   securityGroups: fileSystem.connections.securityGroups,

Reviewer 3: Is this required? If it is, I expect it to be implicit and automatic. If it is not required, omit from the snippet.

Author: `vpcSubnets` should not be required, but I am afraid `securityGroups` is.

To allow lambda function to access the efs filesystem, the lambda function will need a security group  to connect to efs  via TCP on the NFS port 2049. The general practice should be add the `fileSystem.connections.securityGroups` into the Lambda function security groups and allow the fileSystem.connections connect internally on its default port. However, as lambda.Function can't access the `fileSystem`, we are not able to add them for users.  So we probably have to leave this for users under the hood. Any recommended approaches?

  filesystems: {
    filesystem: lambda.LambdaFileSystem.fromEfsFileSystem(accessPoint),
    localMountPath: '/mnt/msg',

>   },

Reviewer 3: 1. Rename `lambda.LambdaFileSystem` to `lambda.FileSystem` (no need to repeat "lambda").
2. Rename `fromEfsFileSystem` to `fromAccessPoint` or `fromEfsAccessPoint`.

Can we move the localMountPath as a positional argument of the static method and avoid the extra nesting?

```ts
filesystems: [ lambda.FileSystem.fromAccessPoint(accessPoint, '/mnt/msg'[, options]) ]
```

This reads much cleaner: "file system from access point to /mnt/msg".

Author: OK. I think we probably have to use `fromEfsAccessPoint` in case Lambda will support more different filesystem types with different types of  access points in the future.

*Further note* that, if the log group already exists and the `logRetention` is not set, the custom resource will reset
the log retention to never expire even if it was configured with a different value.

### FileSystem Access

You can configure a function to mount an Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) to a
directory in your runtime environment with the `filesystems` property. To access Amaozn EFS
from lambda function, the Amazon EFS access point will be required. 

> Amazon EFS _access points_ are application-specific entry points into an EFS file system that

Reviewer 3: Feels like this section should be part of the aws-efs module docs

make it easier to manage application access to shared datasets. Access points can enforce a user
identity, including the user's POSIX groups, for all file system requests that are made through
the access point. Access points can also enforce a different root directory for the file system
so that clients can only access data in the specified directory or its subdirectories. See
[Working with Amazon EFS Access Points](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/efs/latest/ug/efs-access-points.html) for more details.

The following sample enables the lambda function to mount the Amazon EFS filesystem via the `accessPoint` to `/mnt/msg` in the runtime environment. We have to create an access point in Amaozn EFS and make sure Lambda function has
read write access to it.

```ts
// create a new Amaozn EFS filesystem
const fileSystem = new efs.FileSystem(stack, 'Efs', { vpc });

// create a new access point from the filesystem
const accessPoint = fileSystem.addAccessPoint('AccessPoint', {
  // set /mnt/msg as the root of the access point
  path: '/mnt/msg',
  // as /mnt/msg does not exist, the efs will create the directory with the following createAcl

>   createAcl: {

Reviewer 3: Asking again, can we omit this? Are these the defaults?

Author: Hi @eladb 

After some investigation, yes we can create the accessPoint simply with

```ts
// create an access point and expose the root of the filesystem
const accessPoint = fileSystem.addAccessPoint('AccessPoint');
```

However, it indicates that the AccessPoint will expose the root directory of the efs filesystem and lambda will not be able to access it with no POSIX user enforcement and will simply throws permission denied.

So now I am proposing the following sample

```ts
// create an access point and expose the root of the filesystem
const accessPoint = fileSystem.addAccessPoint('AccessPoint', {
  createAcl: {
    ownerGid: '1001',
    ownerUid: '1001',
    permissions: '750',
  },
  path: '/export/lambda',
  posixUser: {
    gid: '1001',
    uid: '1001',
  }
});
```
And in Lambda:

```ts
  filesystems: [
    // mount the access point to /mnt/msg in the lambda runtime enironment
    lambda.FileSystem.fromEfsAccessPoint(accessPoint, '/mnt/msg'),
  ],
```

In this case:

1. A new `AccessPoint` will be created exposing the `/export/lambda` from the efs filesystem to the client(lambda function in this case).

2. When `/export/lambda` was created, it will be created with the permission defined in `createAcl`, which is uid=1001 and gid=1001 with permission `750`.  It's not default or any recommended value but just a common practice and was used in our [blog post](https://aws.amazon.com/tw/blogs/aws/new-a-shared-file-system-for-your-lambda-functions/).

3. Now the `/export/lambda` was created and exposed and `posixUser` was defined, the lambda function will be able to mount this access point with the posixUser identity enforcement, which is also uid=1001 and gid=1001 and eventually be able to mount the access point to`/mnt/msg` in its runtime environment.

Looks like this is mandatory as a working sample and I didn't see anything we can concise or skip any further. WDYT?

Reviewer 3: What happens if you only specify the `path`:

```ts
const accessPoint = fileSystem.addAccessPoint('AccessPoint', {
  path: '/export/lambda'
});
```

Author: If only path specified without CreateAcl then there will be two conditions:

1. The path already exists then everything is fine but we still have to specify posixUser otherwise the Lambda might not be able to access it(depends on the directory permission of the path)

2. The path actually doesn't exist then createAcl will be required so efs will create it with the settings in createAcl for us. If createAcl not defined, cloudformation will throw error.

As we can't check if path already exists from CDK, we have a note about this in the AccessPoint doc string.

Reviewer 3: Okay, let's leave as is for now. Feels like we can do better but I am failing to understand and it's probably okay for this example.

    ownerUid: '1001',
    ownerGid: '1001',
    permissions: '750',
  },
  // enforce the POSIX identity so lambda function will access with this identity
  posixUser: {
    uid: '1001',
    gid: '1001',
  },
});

const fn = new lambda.Function(stack, 'MyLambda', {
  code,
  handler,
  runtime,
  vpc,
  filesystems: [

>     lambda.FileSystem.fromEfsAccessPoint(accessPoint, '/mnt/msg'),

Reviewer 3: This is not the same /mnt/msg as the one defined for the access point. Use different paths to make this clearer. Otherwise users might think that these are related and they are not.

Author: YES! You are right. Let me revise it again.

Author: Now I am exposing the access point with `/export/lambda` as the root and Lambda function to mount to  its `/mnt/msg`. Let's see if this looks better now.

Reviewer 3: Yeah looks good.

so that clients can only access data in the specified directory or its subdirectories. See
[Working with Amazon EFS Access Points](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/efs/latest/ug/efs-access-points.html) for more details.

The following sample enables the lambda function to mount the Amazon EFS filesystem via the `accessPoint` to `/mnt/msg` in the runtime environment. We have to create an access point in Amaozn EFS and make sure Lambda function has
read write access to it.

```ts
// create a new Amaozn EFS filesystem
const fileSystem = new efs.FileSystem(stack, 'Efs', { vpc });

// create a new access point from the filesystem
const accessPoint = fileSystem.addAccessPoint('AccessPoint', {
  // set /mnt/msg as the root of the access point
  path: '/mnt/msg',
  // as /mnt/msg does not exist, the efs will create the directory with the following createAcl
  createAcl: {
    ownerUid: '1001',
    ownerGid: '1001',
    permissions: '755',
  },
  // enforce the POSIX identity so lambda function will access with this identity
  posixUser: {
    uid: '1001',
    gid: '1001',
  },
});

const fn = new lambda.Function(stack, 'MyLambda', {
  code,
  handler,
  runtime,
  vpc,

>   securityGroups: fileSystem.connections.securityGroups,

Reviewer: Now that the `filesystem` is exposed on the `accessPoint` you should be able to create the security group and "connect it" to the filesystem.

Author: @jogold  thanks for the chime in. I found `AccessPoint` can only expose the `IFileSystem` in this case. Any suggestions?

Reviewer: `IFileSystem` extends `ec2.IConnectable` so you have access to the `connections` object

Author: Do you mean something like this?

```
accessPoint.filesystem.connections.AllowToDefaultPort(function)
```
However, if  we `fn.node.addDependency(accessPoint.filesystem)` , this will create circular dependency.

suggestions?

Reviewer: more something like `accessPoint.filesystem.connections.allowDefaultPortFrom(function)`. About the circular dependency, did you test this? What if you revert the relation `function.connections...`? If there's effectively a circular dependency then it would also be present outside of this construct, when a user connects it...
